# Virtual Machine Management Script - genMV.sh

## Description
The `genMV.sh` script allows you to manage virtual machines using VirtualBox. It provides functionalities to create, list, start, stop, and delete virtual machines, as well as to log actions and errors in a log file.

## Features
- **List virtual machines**
- **Create a new virtual machine** with customizable options (name, RAM, disk size, ISO path).
- **Delete a specified virtual machine**.
- **Start a specified virtual machine** in headless mode.
- **Stop a specified virtual machine**.
- **Delete all virtual machines** in a single command.
- **Log metadata** of created virtual machines.
- **Handle errors** by redirecting error messages to a log file.

## Prerequisites
- VirtualBox must be installed on your system.
- `VBoxManage` must be accessible from the terminal.
- A desktop environment for using `xdg-open` (to open the log file).

## Installation
1. Clone this repository or download the `genMV.sh` file.
2. Make the script executable:

bash
   chmod +x genMV.sh

## Usage
Run the script with the following options:

bash
./genMV.sh [OPTION] [ARGUMENT]

### Available Options
- `L` : List all virtual machines.
- `N [name]` : Create a new virtual machine. If the name is not specified, a default name will be used (`Debian1`).
- `S [name]` : Delete the specified virtual machine.
- `D [name]` : Start the specified virtual machine in headless mode.
- `A [name]` : Stop the specified virtual machine.
- `R` : Delete all virtual machines.

### Usage Examples
1. List virtual machines:

bash
   ./genMV.sh L

2. Create a new virtual machine:

bash
   ./genMV.sh N

or 

bash
   ./genMV.sh N Debian1

or 

bash
   ./genMV.sh N Debian1 Debian2


3. Delete a virtual machine:

bash
   ./genMV.sh S NomDeLaVM

4. Start a virtual machine:

bash
   ./genMV.sh D NomDesVM

5. Stop a virtual machine:

bash
   ./genMV.sh A NomDesVM

6. Delete all virtual machines:

bash
   ./genMV.sh R

## Log File
A `log.txt` file will be created in the current directory to record all actions and errors generated by the script. This file will be overwritten with each execution of the script.

## Warnings
- Ensure you have the necessary permissions to execute commands with `VBoxManage`.
- Use the delete commands (`S` or `R`) with caution, as this will permanently delete virtual machines.

## Contribution
Contributions are welcome. Feel free to submit suggestions or improvements.